
# random thoughts, trying to gather shit and shit

1) Cruchtfield : strong connexion between th. physics == thermodynamics and information theory :: intuition/theory of Paul Bourgine on predictability of complex systems through {\varespilon}-machines

2) debate with Thibault on quanti/quali : Harvey vs Pumain : when does theoretical speculations become theory ? when does ideas are indeed teken seriously ? isn't it when we hav eempirical evidences about thoses ? not sure about that. also not sure how the construction of knowledge is conditionned to social construction, and is this actually an issue ? shall we take science politically or "objectivaly" (assuming we have any definition of that ?) --> paper critisizing Denise, comparing to Harvey and shit, basing on the same theoretical basis how can you come to such different theories ? (NB : basis is Schumpeterian theory of innovation ; could be the same for Aghion -- so far from this ? 
 --> growth gogma hurt in basics economics upto very specilaized fields such as real estate management. Is it a structural bias ? how can we scientificlly get out of this dogma ? first of all : dogma/non-evodence-based assumptions are non-sci. then : do you have better models ? Here we need to reveisit the notion of model. the "technocraty-bla-bla" (can be of course politized into an instument of control from elites etc but indeed more \emph{complex} than that, as elites, power etc are themselves endogeneous...)
back to Denise vs Harvey : is there really a debate ? are we not just comparing things playing on different grounds. For me there is kind of that. Essence of evolutive Urban's theory is complexity, implying chaos of trajectoris (// fluctuations in Crutchfield's paper : cloning algo isn't the \beta-modified \varepsilon-machine ? not that far indeed, just a different point of view, theoretical physisists meeting computer scientists and statisticians. -> that's what great in SFI .. bla bla develop that shit as an interdisciplinar claim etc, I think there are good points underlying all this.

3) Julien : we need to launch an ERC on a totally new unexplored subject.. i) is it indeed a totally unexplored subject ? ii) what are actually tha advantages of geocités in that -> mix quanti-quali that we see nowhere else. personnaly I don't know but having seen some foreign labs, seems that we are quite pioneer in Fr on such a mix. furthermore, strong synergy and talents. Denise, Lena, Arnaud etc. Can we rely on the past ? we shall rely on the present and for that Arnaud's vision is strongly visionnary. Compared to that, CASA is going crazy, following bog-data mainstream and shit. of course there is something to do NOW with 
but I'm convinced that data without theories (and thus good models becuae goods models are a consequence of theory), data is Garbage In -- garbage Out. Batty seemed quite convinced about this point, but strangly ot does not seem to be the point he's following in his research : why ? be careful that here it does not become the same !

4) Towards overarching fields of study and deprectaed domains. Given the current scientific context, it would be astinishing that some objects of research ould unilatteraly stay associated to one particularly field (given also that field are crushing from the inside, in particular because of the spreading of their research object)

WE NEED NOW

  -> a wiser vision on the role of interdisciplinarity -- does not mean only interdisc. ; science also advances in extremely refined subjects, in each, and thanks to that numerous technologicaln progresses. but constructing a SOCIAL PROGRESS from science seems to require (based on failures on current models etc) more integration, more scientist working on transversory pbs ; translating between "disciplines" -- it is not the end of disciplines, but theur integrated consecration --

  -> no more distinction quanti/quali, in the sense that quanti sci need a very strong quali background (even more than quali sci do need quanti, because after all, learning to program is just natural -- TDOO check this affirmation, isn't it a totally sibjective point of view ?

  -> social/societal integation of scientific purposes/issues :: need to go further than simple translation, a real sci. education of Everyone is essential (and a condition of social integration). Freedom of thought and of choice is (is it ?) a natural framework for human prosperity ?

-----

overarch shitty reactionary debates sci. vs others : makes no sense to compare non-comparable things ; just different purposes and aim ; makes also no sense to impose any thought framework to anybody : unconditionnal to education and culture, what is the probability for a given profile to be located in a given geo/political area ? EQUIprobable if assumes totally social construction hypothesis :: if ANY socio-technical framework is given , then any future structure emerging from it is a direct consequence of it (in a chaotic-determinist way :: history is one of the best example of chaotic trajectories of societies ;; in space we can assume a certain independence, spatial effects are all determined by DISTANCE -- that has of course become non-isotropic and non-homogeneous even more nowadays, as the organisation of urban systems produces multidimensional impedence fields that non-linearly modify theit neighborhood at a both local and global way ; a simple geography implied distance-interaction-driven models, that should have been more simple to fit *** Q : is there a way to check that, i.e.. data and stylized facts on a givcne Regime (in the sense of TransMonDyn transitions) from an other time that we could check accurately ?
---
Robin saying Lena more quoted than Renaud ? not that sure -- difficult context and notions (cf himself, pretending to do CS Science but not even getting basic principle of the Random Growth Model :: where is the pb, why are people trying to use a fwk going further than able too get ? -- I am not actually doing the same when trying to 'charlatan'(special-dedicace-EWGT-prof)-shit on ergodicity and stationarity ? do not think so as i) both concepts have been intergated and understood in a proper manner ii) what's lacking then is a proper contextualized definition, any \mu-thematician readinfg this would suffocate, as we usually do when people do quantiative unfunded things.

----

the ego conflict ( cf Barthelemy and his piupuls, but actually similar on "geodiv" side) : to what extent is it necessay to science ?


